# CS465 SNHU Full Stack Development I
-----------------------
#### Architecture

For this full-stack project, there were two halves, one for the customers and one for the administrators. The customer side was a very basic web app where Express of the MEAN stack was used. This created different views for each page that the customer can potential visit in a modular, resuable, and easily editable format. With each click of a link, Express loads the specific HTML file needed to present the view. JavaScript was used for the API controllers. These allowed to render the information for the web app. This allowed for a page to become updated if the travel list was updated from the administrative side. Angular within the MEAN stack was what allowed the creation of the administrative side with an SPA, or single page application. Also, the SPA held an authentication portion, where it used a login feature where only registered users could manipulate trips. CRUD functions were developed so that administrators of Travlr Getaways could add, edit, update, or delete trips from the database. This would actively change the client side to reflect the changes made from the SPA. For a database, a NoSQL MongoDB was used because of the easy setup, use, and scalability. The database stored trips and registered users.

#### Functionality

In the Travlr Getaways project, JSON was used for data formatting. The difference between JavaScript and JSON is where JavaScript is a programming language, JSON is a type of data format. JSON ties the frontend and backend together by allowing HTTP requests containing JSON to move back and forth between the two ends. A user may send a HTTP request, in which the backend will read and respond appropriately. A resuable user interface reduces the complexity of code and thus reduces chance of human error. This will allow for a more efficient development. For an example, I had refactored the home page component to render buttons for the "Login/Logout" and "Trips List". Although small, it improved usability because it informed the user that these are actual buttons, rather than just text on the screen. Reusable UI components creates an even flow for the application and makes the use of it more natural. 

#### Testing
There were a couple methods of testing this application. First of all, was the use of Postman. This allowed to use the url and each endpoint to test different methods and instantanelously see the HTTP response. This, coupled with the output to the terminal/console made it easy to see what was the issue. Also, different console logs were used to understand where failures may have been taking place. Using developer console on the web browser, one could actively see where the fault was happening and move forward with debugging if it was a runtime error. In this application, different API methods like POST and PUT are put into palce to verifiy if the user was logged in, as well as any edits or additions to the trip list.

#### Reflection
This course has helped me reaching my professional goals by showing me the process of a simple web applicaiton. Although this is a very basic application, it puts into perspective the amount of work, debugging, and head-scratching it takes to create the successful web apps we use today. I have developed my debugging process some more, and have realized the brute force changes may not always be the key. Sometimes it really is something small, like a missing comma, semi-colon or brace. I do believe the learning of full-stack development can help me become a more marketable candidate because it shows the dedication needed to produce a full-stack application.
